hello namaste
Salam alekum sorry Akal welcome back to
another session with your washer fatwa
rev accom today I am going to show you
aloo mutter samosa you know this is a
very basic samosa it is available all
over the greatest is the simplicity and
the flavors and the taste that go into
it very simple very tasty you can eat
lot of these samosas in one go because
they are so delicious so for this first
we are going to make the masala to make
the masala always add less oil not more
so just add a little bit of oil and when
the oil is slightly hot we are going to
add a little bit of cumin seeds in this
we're going to add finely chopped green
chilli yes little extra for me in this
we can add green peas okay also add salt
pinch of turmeric in this we're going to
add coriander powder chopped coriander a
little bit of chili powder and pinch of
garam masala this is optional okay and
once you add this just toss this you
want this masala to be slightly roasted
like this that is when your samosas will
be nice and flavorful in this add boiled
and mashed potato okay so making this
aloo masala samosa is so simple and we
are going to make many variations there
are calamus allah samosa what it was
that are fried and made even the Bengal
is make it differently the samosas in
Kerala are different in Maharashtra
again the flavors are different so we
are going to learn all of them but this
is the basic services if you have seen
earlier I have also added some of some
masala ginger garlic paste it is up to
you you know how you want to do it but
this one is very simple and tasty now in
the last they going to switch off the
flame then squeeze in little bit of lime
juice and one more thing is
never you boil the potatoes remove the
potatoes when they are fully done and
when the water is hot if you let this
potato sit in that water
moisture will be absorbed by the
potatoes and you will have very nasty
potatoes and that is not really good for
making good samosas you want very well
cooked potatoes and the potatoes have to
be dry now the masala is all ready but
making the dough for the samosas is also
very important so let me show you how to
make that now I am going to make this by
taking around 300 grams of flour in this
for the flavouring I am going to add
ajwain in the dough okay there are a
couple of variety of those people make
some people like to add cumin seeds that
is a jeera but you know adjoin is the
most popular flavor and in this add
right amount of salt in the sheet now
make a well and pour around 100 grams of
vegetable shortening oil or ghee
whatever you want to make now add water
and make it a stiff dough that is like
Puri dome not like chapati chapati is
very soft the pour is a tighter dough so
we are going to add water and we are
going to make the dough now the dough is
ready all you do is just take a clean
wrap for a cloth and just wrap it and
after resting it for you know 30 minutes
we are going to make the samosas once
you raise the dough divide them into the
portions you want if you want bigger
samosas you may have to take bigger
portions if you want small samosas take
it lemon size because each dough you
will be able to make 2 samosas now roll
it first little bit rounds okay for
rolling the puris or samosa dough you
never have to use flour because if you
use flour first thing all spoils and you
know if you use the right amount of
shortening in the door then you will be
able to roll the sheet easily look at
this first make it slightly round and
then now make it elongated like egg
shape make it slightly
Tina look at this once you roll it and
you will be able to see kind of
literally the bottom little bit that is
when you cut like this and you have the
dough ready for two samosas got it now
the masala is ready the sheets are ready
so take a sheet just make sure you apply
water on all sides okay only the edges
we do not need anything in the center
that making samosa is no big art very
simple just make sure the top overlaps
okay like this and meets at the center
okay now look at this perfect now take
the potato masala
whichever one you know I made this lil
bit spicy but you can make it a little
bit milder too okay one important thing
is just press the masala then start
folding it from one side then fold it
next okay like this okay see the overlap
look at this we call them sitting Buddha
samosas because the fold and then the
shape on top so this is your awesome
looking samosas
so make bunch of them and fry it and the
beauty is you can put these samosas on a
plate put in the fridge and fry it only
when you guests arrive lot of people
think shaping the samosas is an art for
me frying the samosas at the right
temperature is art do not fry them at a
hot oil you know make it medium hot when
the samosa is dropped that is how it
should be the slowly the bubbles have to
start coming up that is when your oil is
perfect and you will be able to fry
samosas okay if you fry the samosas in
really hot oil the colour will come but
you want to get the nice the bite the
samosa bite it is not the shortcrust
bite it is not kachori bite it is a
samosa bite when you get that that is
when your samosas will be perfect don't
you worry
just let the samosas get coloring slowly
that is when they will come out really
really good I told you frying is an art
but makes
sure you get the samosas correct color
and when you start frying them at a
little bit lower temperature then the
samosas will get even coloring so now
you know high temperature uneven
coloring and mod that Christina's slow
start from a little bit lower
temperature even coloring and their nice
cast other is crispy the beauty of a
well fried samosa is look at the bite
the bite means it has to be crispy but
the bite has to go inside just like this
it should not the dough should not
stretch even a bit that is when you have
a perfect summer sword oh look at this
how is it difference I hope you enjoy
today's session of learning really basic
aloo mutter samosa but do not forget
whatever is all about inspiring others
to come so please post your recipes and
cooking tips at war ever calm so others
can benefit from your gate cooking I
know you must be thinking how the bite
is on this